**Synchronize your back-end repo.** The back-end template repository https://github.com/61040-fa25/concept_backend has been extended with some useful features. Assuming you forked it, you should be able to update your fork by selecting the sync option in GitHub in your browser. Alternatively, you can just copy the new files. The updates include: (a) some prompts for generating the API spec from concepts (design/tools/api-extraction-from-spec.md and design/tools/api-extraction-from-code.md); (b) a utility (src/concept-server.ts) that will automatically provide access to your concept actions and queries as HTTP requests; (c) an updated configuration file (deno.json) that defines a command you can execute in the terminal (deno task concepts) to run your back-end server; and (d) updates to the background files (in design/background).

**Generate an API spec for your back end and start it up.** Using the api-extraction prompt, generate an API spec or your back end. Start the back end running by executing deno task concepts in the console. Note the URL that it reports the server is listening on (eg, http://localhost:8000).

**Initialize a front-end repo.** Create a new repo in the GitHub browser UI, and clone a local copy. Open it in your agentic coding tool, and ask the tool to initialize the repo as a Vue.js application. Copy the API spec from your back-end repo (which you presumably have open in another IDE, such as Visual Studio Code) and place it in a file in the new repo. Tell your agentic coding tool where the back end is running (for example at http://localhost:8000/api) and point it to the API spec file.

**Reactive Components.** Implement your sketches and concepts as a series of individual Vue.js components. These components should cleanly separate concerns—each component should be responsible for managing its own state/data and other behavior. Note: there may not be an exact one-to-one correspondence between your concepts and Vue components as some components may combine data from multiple concepts, or vice versa. Components may be nested within one another, and will need to pass data back and forth accordingly (i.e., via props when passing data from a parent component to a child, or by emitting custom events to pass data vice-versa). You will likely also have some shared front-end state across components, using the browser’s native local storage or a Pinia store. The resultant user interface should be reactive: the web page should not need to be refreshed or reloaded to see the effect of the user’s action. For this task, we recommend focusing exclusively on the functionality of your components. Aesthetic concerns will come next.

**Testing your app and updating.** Make sure to test your front end repeatedly as you develop, ensuring that it works correctly with your back end. You are likely to find you will need to make changes both to the back end (for example, to add queries and actions) and to the front end. If you didn’t complete all your concept implementations, this is the time to do it! Document any significant changes to your back-end design.

**User journey.** Write a one-paragraph user journey of one possible way in which someone might use your app. You may re-use a user journey from past assignments if you’d like, or come up with a new one. One week in, your prototype must be, at a minimum, capable of demonstrating this user journey. It’s okay if the prototype is very rough around the edges and doesn’t contain your final style and layout. It is okay if your final app ultimately differs substantially from this prototype.

**Screen recording.** Make a screen recording (maximum two minutes long) where you use your app and demonstrate the user journey. Provide a narration describing the user journey as it takes place. You can use any tool you’d like to make the screen recording. For instance: QuickTime Player on Mac can simultaneously record a video of your screen and audio from your microphone. On Windows, the Snipping Tool https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/use-snipping-tool-to-capture-screenshots-00246869-1843-655f-f220-97299b865f6b can record a video of your screen and lets you add audio after.

**Visual design study.** Look through a diverse range of visual media (including photographs, screenshots, magazines, newsprint, graphic novels, etc.) and assemble two slides of inspiration focusing on typography and color respectively. On each slide, collage together examples that you find particularly inspiring, and then use the margins to extract or annotate particular design choices you might be interested in exploring (e.g., specific color palettes and font families, or characteristics that you find interesting such as serifs, tall/short x-heights, etc.). Here is an example of a slide that focuses on color selection.

**Styling and Layout.** Once you have your component tree implemented, turn to the aesthetic aspects of your user interface design. Drawing on your design study, make choices for the layout of your components, as well as the colors and typography they use, to provide a usable, accessible, and pleasant experience for your users. Think about how you can use these different aspects of style to convey importance (e.g., using colors to indicate successes or errors) or an order of operations (e.g., left or right sidebars, or heading levels to suggest an outline).
